A Tale of Two Cities by Charles Dickens Retold by
Stephen Coborne
Chapter 1 to Dover
It was the year 1775. A coach was going from
London to Dover. The road was wet and muddy.
The horses pulled the heavy coach slowly.
A man on a horse came along the road behind
the coach. He was riding quickly.
Stop! Shouted the rider.
What do you want? Ask the coach driver.
I have a message. Shouted the rider. He stopped his
horse in front of the coach.
The coach also stopped.
The message is for Mr Jarvis Laurie.
Said the rider.
A man looked out of the window of the coach.
He was about sixty years old and he wore old
-fashioned clothes.
He saw the rider and asked,
What news do you bring, Jerry?
Do you know this man, sir? asked the coach driver.
There are robbers on this road.
I know him, replied the old man.
His name is Jerry Cruncher. He has come from my
bank.
Jerry Cruncher is a messenger, not a robber.
Here is a letter for you, Mr Laurie, the messenger
said.
Mr Telson wants you to wait at the Royal George
Inn at Dover.
A young lady will travel to Paris with you.
Thank you, Jerry. Mr Laurie said. He took the letter.
I will wait in Dover. Good night.
At the top of the letter were the words Telson's
Bank, Temple Bar, London.
The date on the letter was the 18th of November
1775.
To Mr Jarvis Laurie, the letter said.
We have news from Telson's Bank in Paris. Dr Manet
is alive.
He is living at the wine shop of Mischa and
Madame Defarge in San Antoine, Paris.
Dr Manet is ill. He was in prison for 18
years.
Lucy Manet, Dr Manet's daughter, will meet you in Dover.
Go to the Royal George Inn in Dover. Wait for
Lucy Manet there.
Lucy has never met her father. Take Lucy to Paris
with you.
Then bring Dr Manet and Lucy back to London.
The name at the bottom of the letter was Telson.
Mr Laurie waited at the Royal George Inn at Dover.
Miss Lucy Manet arrived the next day. She was about
18 years old and she had long golden hair.
Miss Manet said Mr Laurie. I work for Telson's Bank.
There is a Telson's Bank in London and a Telson's
Bank in Paris.
I often travel between the two cities. 20 years ago
your father came to Telson's Bank in Paris.
Said Mr Laurie. He left some money in the bank.
Yes, said Lucy Manet. My father went to prison and
he died.
My mother told me about Telson's Bank. My mother brought
me to England.
I was very young. I have lived in England all
my life. But my mother taught me French.
My mother died a few years ago. Lucy said. And
Telson's Bank took care of me.
Your father went to prison. Mr Laurie said. But he
did not go to court. There was no trial.
That is right, said Lucy. My father died in prison.
No, my dear, said Mr Laurie. I have news of
your father. He did not die in prison.
He is alive and he is living in Paris. I
will take you to him.
Lucy Manet put her hand to her face. Miss Pross.
She said loudly. Then she fainted.
She fell into Mr Laurie's arms. A large woman with
red hair ran into the room.
I will take care of her. She shouted. I am
Miss Pross. Miss Manet's companion.
Chapter Two. A wine shop in Paris.
A ship from Dover to Calais. Then they went by
coach to Paris. They found the Defarge's
wine shop in St Antoine. A wooden barrel of wine
had broken in the street outside the
wine shop. People were lying on the ground. They were
drinking the wine. The hands and
faces were red. Missier Defarge, the owner of the wine
shop, was standing outside the
house. He was watching the people in the street.
Missier Defarge, Mr Laurie said. My name is Jarvis Laurie.
This is Miss Manet. Where is
Doctor Manet? We are going to take him to England.
He is ill. Said Missier Defarge. My wife is taking
care of him. Many years ago I was
Doctor Manet's servant. He helped us then. But he went
to prison. Now we are helping
him. Come in. Come and see him.
Mr Laurie, Lucy, Miss Pross, and Missier Defarge went into
the wine shop.
Madame Defarge was sitting in the shop. She was knitting
with wool. Her face was hard
and unkind.
This is Mr Laurie. Said Missier Defarge. He wants to
see Doctor Manet.
Doctor Manet will not know you. Said Madame Defarge. He
was in prison for 18 years. He
remembers nothing.
Madame Defarge looked at Lucy.
Are you his daughter?
She asked.
Yes. Said Lucy. I am Lucy Manet. I want to
see my father.
Come with me. Said Madame Defarge.
Madame Defarge took Mr Laurie and Lucy upstairs to a
small room. An old man was
sitting in the room. His hair was white. He was
making shoes.
Mr Laurie spoke to the old man.
What is your name, Missier? He asked.
The old man looked round.
Prisoner number 105 North Tower. He replied.
He knows his number in the Bastille prison. Said Madame
Defarge.
But he does not know his name.
Mr Laurie was a kind man.
Come with us, Doctor Manet. He said quietly. Your daughter
is here.
We will take you to England.
Doctor Manet did not understand. Mr Laurie held the old
man's arm.
He led him out of the room.
Doctor Manet walked slowly. He held a pair of shoes
in his hand.
Mr Laurie took Doctor Manet, Miss Pross and Lucy back
to England. They went by ship
from Calais to Dover. On the ship, Doctor Manet was
weak and ill. A young man helped
Lucy and Mr Laurie. They took care of Doctor Manet.
You are kind, sir. Lucy said to the young man.
What is your name?
My name is Charles Darnay, replied the young man.
Are you French?
Asked Lucy. Yes, I am. Charles Darnay replied.
But I live in England. I often travel between England
and France.
My father has been ill for a long time, said
Lucy. But he will get well in England.
We will meet again, said Darnay. I will visit you
in England.
In England, Doctor Manet slowly got well. After many months,
he started to remember things.
He remembered his wife. He remembered his daughter. But he
did not remember the Bastille prison.
And he did not remember his journey to England.
Lucy and her father lived in a small house in
London. Miss Pross lived with them.
She took care of the house. Mr Laurie became a
friend of the Manet's and Miss Pross.
He often visited them.
One day, Doctor Manet and Lucy received a letter. It
was a letter from a lawyer.
You must come to the old Bailey Law Court on
Monday, the letter said.
You must speak at the trial of Charles Darnay.
Chapter 3. The Old Bailey
Charles Darnay stood in the courtroom. He stood in front
of the judge and the jury.
Doctor Manet, Lucy and Mr Laurie sat at the back
of the courtroom.
A lawyer stood up.
The lawyer spoke to the judge and the jury.
Charles Darnay travelled many times between England and France.
The lawyer said. There are some witnesses.
These people saw Darnay in Dover and in Calais.
One witness saw Darnay giving some papers to a Frenchman.
Darnay is a spy.
The first witness was Lucy Manet. Lucy went to the
front of the courtroom.
She answered the lawyer's questions.
Did you see Charles Darnay on a ship? The lawyer
asked.
Yes, I did. Lucy replied. We were travelling from France
to England.
Mr Darnay often travels between England and France.
Did he speak about the American colonies?
The lawyer asked. No, he did not.
Then the lawyer asked Doctor Manet and Mr Laurie the
same questions.
Doctor Manet did not remember his journey from Paris to
London.
Mr Laurie had not spoken to Charles Darnay.
Did you see Darnay on the ship? The lawyer asked.
Yes, said Mr Laurie.
The next witness was a man with a crooked nose.
His name was Barsad.
Mr Barsad, the lawyer began.
Do you often travel to France?
Yes, sir. I do.
answered Barsad.
Did you see Charles Darnay at Calais?
Yes, sir. I did. I saw him give some papers
to a Frenchman.
Another lawyer stood up. He was Charles Darnay's lawyer.
His name was Stryver.
Mr Barsad, what is your business in France?
Mr Stryver asked.
It is private business, sir.
Barsad answered.
Do you give letters or papers to Frenchmen sometimes?
Asked Mr Stryver.
Yes, sir.
Barsad replied.
Charles Darnay also has private business in France.
Why are his papers different from yours?
Darnay gave papers to a spy.
Said Barsad, angrily.
Darnay met the spy at night. I heard them speak
about George Washington.
Washington is a revolutionary in the American colonies.
You saw Darnay and the French spy at night asked
Mr Stryver.
Did you see Charles Darnay clearly?
Yes, sir. replied Barsad.
I never forget a face.
Mr Stryver's clerk was sitting next to him. Stryver pointed
to this man.
Mr Barsad, look at my clerk.
He said, have you seen this man before?
Everybody in the courtroom looked at Mr Stryver's clerk.
The clerk was exactly like Charles Darnay.
Mr Barsad did not answer Stryver's question.
This is my clerk, Mr Sidney Carton.
Said Mr Stryver.
Is he like Charles Darnay?
Yes, he is. Barsad replied.
Did Mr Carton give some papers to a French spy
in Calais?
Asked Stryver.
No, sir.
It was dark, said Stryver. You saw a man.
The man was not Mr Carton. And he was not
Charles Darnay.
Everybody looked at Sidney Carton again. He was exactly like
Mr Stryver was right.
The twelve men of the jury left the courtroom. They
had to make a decision.
Was Darnay guilty? Or was he not guilty?
A few hours later, the jury came back into the
courtroom.
The judge spoke to one of the jury men.
What is your decision? He asked.
Not guilty. Said the jury men.
Darnay is innocent. He is not a spy.
Darnay is not a spy.
Chapter 4. New Friends
Charles Darnay was free. He stood outside the old Bailey
law courts.
He shook hands with everybody. Dr Manet looked at Darnay.
Do I know you? Manet asked.
He helped us on the ship father, said Lucy.
But you do not remember our journey to England.
Charles Darnay and Sidney Carton went to an inn and
drank some wine.
Carton drank a lot of wine.
You have drunk too much, said Darnay.
Do not drink any more, Mr Carton.
I always drink too much, said Carton.
I don't care about people. People don't care about me.
But I want to drink some wine. And I want
to think about Miss Lucy Manet.
She's very beautiful.
Charles Darnay and Sidney Carton looked at each other.
They were different in some ways. Darnay was tall and
handsome.
He had smooth dark hair and he wore fine clothes.
Carton had very pale skin and dark eyes. His hair
and clothes were untidy.
But the two men were like each other. Their faces
were the same.
Four months later, Mr Jarvis Lorry went to Dr Manet's
house.
The doctor and Lucy were not there. Mr Lorry talked
to Miss Pross.
How is Dr Manet? Asked Mr Lorry.
He's well, replied Miss Pross.
But sometimes he remembers the Bastille prison. Sometimes he walks
round and round his room.
He remembers his work in the prison. He makes shoes.
Why did he go to prison? Asked Lorry.
Has he told you?
No, said Miss Pross.
But a rich and powerful man sent him to the
Bastille.
In France, powerful aristocrats often send men to prison.
Rich men make the laws. Innocent men go to prison
without a trial.
Yes, said Lorry. French aristocrats send men to prison without
a trial.
But now, Dr Manet's friends help him.
Said Miss Pross.
You are kind to him, Mr Lorry. And Mr Darnay
and Mr Carton often visit our house.
I like this house, said Mr Lorry. I do not
have a family of my own.
I visit this house and I am happy.
Chapter 5, the aristocrat.
It was a hot day in Paris.
The Marquis Santevremond was angry. He left the palace of
the king's minister.
The minister had not spoken to Santevremond. The minister was
too busy. He was drinking chocolate.
The Marquis got into his coach.
Go quickly. He shouted to the driver. Drive to the
chateau.
The coach went quickly through the streets of Paris. People
ran away. People were afraid of the Marquis.
They were afraid of the Marquis' coach and horses. Suddenly,
there was a terrible cry.
The driver stopped the horses at the side of the
road. People came out of their houses.
The Marquis shouted to the coach driver.
What is wrong?
Mr the Marquis.
Said the driver. The child ran in front of the
coach. The horses kicked the child. The child is dead.
Shouted somebody in the crowd.
Dead.
Cried a tall man.
Jack, my child is dead.
Who is the father of the child?
Shouted the Marquis.
It is Gaspar.
Said a voice.
Gaspar.
Shouted the Marquis.
Here is some money.
The Marquis threw a gold coin out of the window
of the coach. Nobody moved. Nobody picked up the coin.
Everybody was afraid of the Marquis. They were afraid of
rich and powerful aristocrats.
Then somebody threw the gold coin back into the coach.
The aristocrat looked at the crowd of people. He hated
them. He spoke to the coach driver.
Drive to the shadow. He said.
The coach moved away from the crowd. The Marquis forgot
about the dead child.
A man ran after the coach. But the Marquis did
not see him.
In the evening, the coach arrived at the shadow of
Santevremond.
Gabel, an old servant, was waiting for the Marquis.
Mr. the Marquis.
Said Gabel.
I was watching your coach. A man was holding on
to the back of the coach.
A man? Where is he?
Asked the Marquis.
He jumped into the bushes beside the road.
Replied Gabel.
Find him quickly.
Shouted the aristocrat.
Now, has Missier Charles arrived? Has he come from England?
No, Mr. the Marquis.
Gabel replied.
Later in the evening, the Marquis was in his dining
room. He was eating his supper.
He looked out of the window. He saw a man
outside.
Gabel shouted the Marquis loudly.
There is a man outside the shadow. Who is he?
Gabel looked out of the window. The night was dark.
There is nobody outside, Mr. the Marquis.
The servant said.
Then Gabel listened.
But I can hear something? He said.
I can hear a coach.
Good. My nephew Charles has arrived.
Said the Marquis.
A few minutes later, Charles Darnay came into the dining
room.
Good evening, Uncle. He said.
Good evening, Charles.
Said the Marquis.
How is your life in England?
My life is good, Uncle. Replied Charles Darnay.
Why do you live in England?
Said the Marquis.
You must come back to France.
Soon I will die.
Then you will be the Marquis at Everimond.
I do not want to be a Marquis.
Said Darnay.
I do not use the name, Santa Everimond.
I do not want to be an aristocrat.
Nonsense.
Said the Marquis angrily.
You are an aristocrat.
We shall talk about this tomorrow.
I do not want to talk about this, Uncle. Darnay
replied.
I will return to England early in the morning.
Good night.
The Marquis went to bed.
He remembered the dead child in Paris.
He remembered the tall man.
The man had cried out.
Dead! My child is dead!
Gabelle had seen a man holding on to his coach.
The Marquis remembered that.
He himself had seen a man outside the window of
the Chateau.
He remembered that.
Suddenly, the Marquis was afraid.
Charles Darnay left the Chateau early in the morning.
He did not speak to his uncle.
He did not want to speak to his uncle.
And Charles could not speak to him.
The Marquis, Santa Everimond, was dead.
He lay in his bed.
And knife was in his chest.
Chapter 6 A Wedding
One day in the summer, Charles Darnay visited Dr. Manette
at his house in London.
Sir, he said, I am a teacher and a translator.
I am a Frenchman, but I live in England.
Life in France is too difficult.
Yes, yes.
Sir Dr. Manette, there is only bad news from France.
I have often visited your house, Sir Darnay.
You are a kind man and a good doctor.
And I am in love with your daughter.
Sir, I want to marry Lucy.
Dr. Manette was surprised.
Does Lucy know this?
He asked.
No, replied Darnay.
I will ask her today.
Sir, will you let me marry Lucy?
Yes, said Dr. Manette.
Please speak to her.
A few days later, Monsieur Defarge was in his wine
shop in Paris.
He had some news.
Gaspar is dead.
Defarge said to his wife.
He went to the guillotine.
He died today.
Gaspar killed the Marquis Antebrymond.
Said Madame Defarge.
But the people have suffered too much.
The cruel aristocrats made the old laws.
Now the people must make new laws.
Soon we will kill all the aristocrats.
Be careful.
Said Monsieur Defarge quickly.
Those are dangerous words.
There is a stranger in Saint Antoine.
He speaks French well.
But he is English.
He is a spy.
His name is Basand.
At that moment, Basad himself came into the shop.
Good afternoon, he said.
The news about Gaspar is bad.
He killed the Marquis Antebrymond.
Said Madame Defarge carefully.
And now, he is dead.
Why did Gaspar kill the Marquis?
Asked Basad.
Gaspar was a bad man.
He was executed.
Said Monsieur Defarge.
Was the Marquis a bad man too?
Was he executed too?
Asked Basad.
We know nothing about that.
Monsieur Defarge said quickly.
Basad bought a glass of wine.
There is a new Marquis Antebrymond.
He said.
Yes.
He is the nephew of the old Marquis.
Replied Madame Defarge.
The nephew, Charles.
He lives in England.
Basad said slowly.
He looked at Madame Defarge.
Does he live in England?
Said Madame Defarge.
She did not look at Basad.
I know about you.
Said Basad.
Dr. Manette came out of the Bastille prison.
You took care of him.
Is that true?
Everybody knows that.
Said Madame Defarge.
Many years ago, my husband was the doctor's servant.
The doctor helped my family.
Why did Dr. Manette go to prison?
Asked Basad.
Did Santebrymond send him to the Bastille?
We do not know, Missier.
Said Madame Defarge.
You must not speak about this.
Very well.
Said Basad.
But I can tell you some news.
Dr. Manette's daughter, Lucy, is going to get married.
She will be married in London.
In England, her husband is called Charles Darnay.
But in France, he has another name.
He is Charles, Missier the Marquis and Everimand.
One sunny day in London, Charles Darnay married Lucy Manette.
Mr. Jarvis Laurie and Mr. Sidney Carton came to the
wedding.
It was a happy day.
But Sidney Carton was not very happy.
He shook Charles Darnay's hand.
He kissed Lucy.
You are my good friends, he said.
I do not have many friends.
Now you are married.
Please let me visit your new house sometimes.
You will be welcome, said Darnay.
We will always be your friends.
Chapter 7.
Revolution.
Several years past, Charles and Lucy Darnay had a daughter.
They called the girl Lucy, like a mother.
Sidney Carton and Jarvis Laurie often visited the family.
One night, in July 1789, Mr. Laurie visited the house.
I have come from Towson's bank, said Mr. Laurie.
There was a lot of work today.
I have news from Paris.
It is not good news.
The people are fighting in the streets of Paris, said
Mr. Laurie.
They have opened the Bastille prison.
All the prisoners are free.
There is a revolution in France, Mr. Laurie said.
The people want a republic.
They do not want a king.
The people want a new government, but they do not
want the aristocrats.
There are many trials and many executions in Paris.
The banker said.
The people watch the executions.
The guillotine cuts off many heads.
It cuts off the heads of the aristocrats.
Each time an aristocrat dies, said Mr. Laurie, the people
are happy.
Death to all aristocrats.
They shout, long live the republic.
Long live the revolution.
Outside the chateau of St. everyone, the people were very
angry.
Kill all the aristocrats.
Burn the chateau.
They shouted.
The servant Gabell wanted to save the chateau.
But nobody helped him.
The people lit fires.
The chateau burned to the ground.
The people wanted to kill the Marquis and everyone.
But they could not find the Marquis.
The old Marquis was dead.
The new Marquis never came to France.
The people sent Gabell to prison.
Where is the Marquis?
They asked him.
Only the Marquis can save you.
In the next months, many French aristocrats came to London.
They brought news from Paris.
Charles Darnay was now the Marquis and Everimonde.
But he did not tell anybody.
It was a secret.
One day Charles received a letter from France.
At the top of the letter were the words.
Prison of the Abbey.
Paris.
To miss you Charles, the Marquis and Everimonde.
The letter said.
Please help me.
I am in prison.
I was the servant of your family.
Soon I will die.
Please come to Paris.
Please help me.
Your family servant, Tae of Field Gabell.
Chapter 8.
To Paris.
Charles Darnay spoke to Mr. Lorry.
I must go to Paris, he said.
I must help a servant of my family.
Paris?
Said Mr. Lorry.
Doctor Manette will be very worried.
Your family will be very worried.
Please do not tell my family today.
Said Darnay.
Tell them tomorrow.
Tomorrow I will be in Paris.
And soon I will be back in London.
Very well.
Said Mr. Lorry.
I too must go to Paris soon.
I must get some papers from Telson's Bank in Paris.
I must bring them back to London.
Paris is very dangerous now.
The revolution has made people wild.
Then I will send a message to you at Telson's
Bank.
Said Darnay.
I will meet you in Paris.
Charles Darnay went by ship from Dover to Calais.
Many things in France had changed.
There were many revolutionary guards in every town.
French people no longer called each other Monsieur or Madame.
Everybody had to be called Citizen or Citizen S.
Everybody was equal in the New Republic.
There were no aristocrats.
There was no king.
Charles went from Calais by coach.
Outside the town the coach stopped.
Revolutionary guards were standing in the road.
Who are you Citizen?
One of the Revolutionary guards asked.
Show us your papers.
Said another guard.
Do you have a travel permit?
What is your business in France?
I'm going to Paris.
Said Darnay.
Please let me go on.
This man is an aristocrat.
Said the first guard.
He left France and he went to England.
He must go to the guillotine.
I'm going to Paris on business.
Darnay said.
Yes.
You are going to Paris.
Said the second guard.
You are going to prison.
You are under arrest.
Why am I under arrest?
A Starnay angrily.
You are an aristocrat.
Said the first guard.
All aristocrats are enemies of the revolution and enemies of
the republic.
All aristocrats are enemies of the people.
The guillotine is waiting.
It is waiting for you.
A crowd of people stood around the coach.
Death to all aristocrats.
They shouted.
Take him to Paris.
The Revolutionary guards took Darnay to Paris.
They put him in La Force prison.
They found the letter from Gabell in his coat.
This is a letter to Santa everymond.
Said a guard.
We know that name.
The people hate that name.
The next day a man visited Charles.
The man was a revolutionary official.
He looked at Darnay.
I know your face.
He said.
You are Santa everymond.
I am Citizen Defarge.
Miss you Defarge.
Said Darnay.
I know your name.
You helped Dr. Manette.
You must call me Citizen.
We are all equal now.
There are no more misjures and markeyses.
Citizen Defarge.
Will you take a message to Telson's bank?
Ask Darnay.
It is a message for Mr. Laurie.
He will give the message to Dr. Manette.
I will not take your message.
Said Defarge.
You are an aristocrat.
You are an enemy of the Republic.
What will happen to me?
Ask Darnay.
There will be a trial in the people's court.
Then you will go to the guillotine.
Said Defarge.
Chapter 9.
An enemy of the Republic.
Mr. Laurie was at Telson's bank in Paris.
He got some news.
It was bad news.
Charles Darnay was in La Force Prison.
Immediately Mr. Laurie sent a message to London.
He sent it to Dr. Manette.
Dr. Manette came to Paris with Lucy and her child.
Miss Pross and Jerry Cruncher came too.
They stayed in rooms near the bank.
Dr. Manette spoke to Mr. Laurie.
I was a prisoner in the Bastille prison for 18
years.
He said.
The revolutionaries will listen to me.
I will speak at Charles's trial.
And I will speak to Miss Year and Madame Defarge.
They will help us.
I will speak to Madame Defarge too, said Lucy.
I am a wife and I am a mother.
Madame Defarge will understand.
She will help us.
Lucy went to the wine shop in Saint Antoine.
She spoke to Madame Defarge.
But Madame Defarge would not help her.
Your husband is an aristocrat, she said.
Now he is in prison.
Before the revolution, the aristocrat sent poor people to prison.
We were helpless.
Now all that is finished, Madame Defarge said.
The aristocrats have finished too.
Your husband's trial will be tomorrow.
I cannot help you.
Charles, Saint Evermond.
Also called Charles Darnay.
The President of the Court shouted the name.
Charles Darnay stood up.
He stood in front of the judges.
He answered their questions.
You are an aristocrat and an enemy of the Republic.
Said the President.
No, answered Darnay.
I do not live in France.
I have not treated the French people badly.
I did not take money from the people.
I do not want to be the Marquis Saint Evermond.
Are there witnesses?
asked the President.
Will somebody speak for you?
Yes.
Citizen Teofield Gabelle and Dr. Alexandra Manette will speak for
me.
Said Darnay.
Gabelle spoke first.
Charles Darnay did not want to be the Marquis Saint
Evermond.
He said.
He did not want to be an aristocrat.
He did not take any money from the people of
France.
He is a good man.
Then Dr. Manette spoke.
I was a prisoner in the Bastille for 18 years.
He said.
The people in the courtroom cheered.
Long live Dr. Manette.
They shouted.
Charles Darnay helped me.
The doctor said.
I was very sick and he took care of me.
He married my daughter.
He is a good man.
He came back to France.
He wants to help Citizen Gabelle.
The people in the courtroom cheered again.
Long live the Republic.
Long live the people of France.
They shouted.
Charles Darnay was arrested in England.
Dr. Manette said.
The English said.
Darnay is a French spy.
He is a friend of the revolutionaries in the American
colonies.
Now you say he is an enemy of France.
You are wrong.
Let him go.
Shouted the people in the courtroom.
He is a friend of the revolution.
The judges made their decision.
Not guilty.
The president said.
He spoke to Darnay.
You are free.
He said.
Chapter 10.
Citizen Barsad.
Charles Darnay stood outside the courtroom.
He was free.
He held Lucy in his arms.
He is innocent.
I have saved him.
Said Dr. Manette.
Let's go home now.
They returned to their rooms near the bank.
Jerry Cruncher and Miss Pross went out to buy some
wine.
A little later the doctor was talking to Charles and
Lucy.
Suddenly some revolutionary guards came into the room.
One of the guards spoke to Charles.
Citizen Everymond.
Also called Darnay.
You were under arrest.
He said.
Why is he under arrest?
Asked Dr. Manette.
There was a trial.
He is not guilty.
He is free now.
There will be another trial tomorrow.
Said the guard.
What has he done wrong?
Said Dr. Manette angrily.
Who accuses him?
You will know tomorrow.
Said the guard.
The guards took Darnay back to La Force prison.
Lucy cried.
Her father held her in his arms.
I have saved him once.
Said Dr. Manette.
I will save him again.
I will speak at the trial tomorrow.
Jerry Cruncher and Miss Pross were looking for some wine.
They went into Miss Yuramadam Defarge's wine shop.
Miss Pross saw a man inside the shop.
She cried out.
Solomon.
What do you want?
Said the man in English.
He was angry.
Solomon.
Said Miss Pross.
You are my brother, Solomon.
I have not seen you for many years.
Be quiet.
Said the man.
I have a different name now.
I am a revolutionary official.
I am an important man in the Republic.
His name is Citizen Barsad.
Said another man.
They all turned and looked at the person who had
spoken.
Darnay.
Said Barsad.
Why are you here?
No. I am not Charles Darnay.
Said the man.
My name is Sydney Carton.
You saw me at the trial in London.
My face is like Darnay's face.
But I am not Darnay.
I want to see Darnay and his wife Lucy Carton.
Where are they?
Darnay is under arrest.
Said Barsad.
He is in La Force Prison.
He will go to the guillotine.